Adding win loss conditions.
In this video, we'll cover creating the high level rules for the game.
We'll figure out how does the user win and how does the user lose, and we'll add UI and rules to support
that.
The task break down here is to add the upset ducks UI prefab and C-sharp script that will give us that
text we see in the screenshot here.
Then with the game class and the UI class together, we'll create the win and loss conditions so that
we know when the user wins and when the user is done because they've lost the game.
We'll open up project in Section five Video for Upset.
Ducks four.
All right.
Let's jump into Unity here.
We're going to be looking at the upset ducks for.
Go ahead and run it.
You can see now we have UI on the screen.
We have text that shows we have three asteroids each time we shoot an asteroid.
After the effect happens, the asteroid ticks from 3 to 2.
Also, the score increases.
This tells us how many of the ducks have we hit successfully.
So we see we've got score two of three.
And let me see.
I got one more shot.
Didn't get him.
And then the result is shown.
So all that there, the asteroids, the score and the you lose results text is what we're going to work
on now.
So we're going to create a new upset duck's UI from scratch.
So let's start.
We'll create an empty game object.
Just make sure we're at zero there.
And then to start adding UI, we'll simply right click that and we're going to add UI.
We've got lots of different options.
I'm going to just use the text here and you can see what we get here is text of a certain size.
I'm going to bump it up to 30 and tweak the width and height.
And the positioning.
Near we go.
For effect, you can also add an outline.
And give that a color as well.
And have it be black on white text or white on black text, however we like it.
And then we'll just give this a name here and we'll have the score.
And then we'll duplicate that for the asteroids text.
And we'll move the score to one side.
We'll add one more for the results text.
Maybe we like that one to be a little bit bigger.
All right.
Now to that, we're going to add our existing UI script.
I'm going to drag it from here to make sure I grab the right one.
Upset duck's UI.
Then I populate those references.
Whoops asteroids goes in first results in they're the last.
And then I'll play the scene.
I see that the results script needs to start with no text inside of it.
All right.
So we can see that the values get populated here.
And let's see how that happens.
So let's take a look at the upset Docs UI script, first of all.
So the one thing I want to show here is that I have a public method for populating each of these fields
the asteroids, the score and the result.
So in the game script, that's where we've set up the rules.
Let's go through four key areas.
First of all, inside the start, what I do is I loop through the list of all the world items in the
scene.
I do that to count how many ducks we have.
That way I know what's the total score we want to hit?
There's other ways I could do that.
I could also hard code the value of three in this case, but this way is a little more flexible.
So level designers could add as many ducks as they want.
Secondly, I give our beginning gameplay values.
I'll set the score to zero and I'll set the asteroids to a concert value, which is in our case, set
to be three.
And these are easily tweaked values.
So now I know I've got a score of zero and I need two to hit three of the ducks.
With three of the asteroids.
Then down here, every update, I'll check to see if there's any dead ducks.
So I do that here.
I loop through all the world items.
If it's a duck, then I check to see if it's currently alive, but its health is zero.
Then it should be flagged as not alive anymore.
And I increment some points.
In this case I'm giving one point per duck.
Then lastly, I checked to see if the game is ended.
If the score that we have is greater or equal to the number of ducks we're trying to get, which is
three, then I show the result of true and that result will show a you win.
Or if in the case of a loss that you lose.
So that's it.
In this case, we've covered how the UI and the game rules were added into our project.
Thanks very much.
In the next video, we'll cover adding extra polish.